A U-V map that I'm really only going to U-V map a couple of the parts I'm going to U-V map this piece.
One of the cushions one of the back cushions on ARM and the back.
And then everything else all duplicated over again.
So I don't have to reuse the map.
Each of the cushions are U-V map once and then I duplicate the object you know I'm thinking I also want
to smooth these guys down here but I also I think want to maybe take this edge right here and scale
it in I'll just s press pass and scale that in just a smidge and then I'll click smooth over here and
that'll smooth that up.
So now I'm just going to take all of these and hit X and delete go back to the seven key and the five
key and the Z key grab that little guy and just duplicate and hit X and then take these two and Shiff
D and Y and move these back up here.
Here we go.
So let's start U-V mapping these all I'll begin with this one.
Let's say I'll come up here to the default screen layout and I'll just click here.
And instead of the default screen lay out the way I have it I'll go to U-V editing and there we go the
period key to zoom in on that and to isolate this I'll press shift.
H.
Now one thing I need to deal with is I've still got the subdivision surface modifier on here.
I need to apply that I need to bake or make permanent This geometry.
You can see that the original geometry is still pretty blocky and out here I need to bake this in.
So what I'm going to do I mean just while I'm in the U-V editing for you I'm just going to move this
over a bit and I'm going to grab this little tab right up here and just bring that over and then I'll
create a propertys panel from this.
Here we go.
So if I go over to my modifiers tab I can see I've got my subdivision service modifier.
I've got to view it to let me see what happens at one.
Not bad.
I almost feel like I could move these in a bear like this and maybe even move these down a bit so it's
not quite causing such a
sharp edge there.
Something like that.
So I'll go with the one I'll hit apply.
And now you can see if you hit tab that's what the cushion looks like now.
Now I think I could get rid of a good deal of these polygons.
I'm going to click this little guy right here to make it so I can't see through it.
And I think I could probably get rid of the saw press the C key to go to the circle select tool and
I'll just click and drag some of these polygons here and maybe these over here.
I don't think I need most of those so I'm going to hit X and delete those faces and I don't know that
I need all of these edges along here either.
I'll just do this and this with alt and shift and click and then press X and choose dissolve edges.
If we just deleted edges here's what would happen.
That's not good.
So I'll undo that with control or command Z what we need to do is dissolve the edges so I press X and
dissolve edges.
And that leaves the polygons there but removes the edges right.
So I like doing this because I like not having to U-V map faces that aren't going to be seen so I'm
just going to go with this here.
I'm going to select this edge and then control click this edge and everything in between those two edges
will be selected.
Then I'll press control and Mark scene and same thing over here to this oh let's do this and this wraps
I need to press control.
There you go Mark seam and I'll do the same thing over here so this control your control easy mark scheme
and then this and this.
Right down here control click control.
Mark seem so now that we've marked these seams we can go ahead and unwrap this but let me show you something
that may happen when you try and unwrap an object like this.
What can happen is you get a little error here.
So I'm going to press you which brings up the U-V mapping menu and then I'm going to click unwrap.
Now look up here it says object has nonuniform scale.
Unwrap will operate in a scaled manner or whatever it says in other words what it's telling you is you
may not be getting a good unwrap here because the transforms haven't been applied.
You've got nonuniform scale.
So let me show you what that means.
I'm going to move this over just a bit.
Press the end key and what that means is that if I tab into object mode look at the scale here.
They're not all the same.
When you create a new object These are all ones.
So if I come over here and create a cube that cube you can see is all ones right.
That's uniform scale.
This is nonuniform scale.
And when you have nonuniform scale you're U-V unwraps can be a little wonky.
So it's something to look out for.
To fix that what you can do is press control a.
And now you can apply the transformations of say your rotation and scale.
You can do it for the scale only and that's fine.
I'm going to go ahead and hit the rotation and scale here and there we go.
So now these are all ones.
OK so now I'm going to hit the end key to go back and then tab into that mode.
Now going to press you and unwrap that looks better.
See the deal is when it has uniform scale.
The U.V. map will more closely match the scale and proportion of Iran object.
That looks pretty good.
I'm going to go with that for now.
So get a tab out of that press alt h to bring everything else back.
And let's take a look at this.
So I'll hit the period key to zoom into it.
I'll press shift h to isolate it.
And let's take a look and see if we can apply our subdivision surface modifier here.
I'll take it down to one again.
And that still looks pretty good.
I'll go ahead and hit apply.
And now let's take a look at it.
Let's go ahead and see if we can take away some of these faces.
So I'm going to take these away right down here.
I don't think we need these.
Now I'll just make my life a little easier as I try and unwrap this.
Well I think we need these down here.
Do we.
Well you might see these Let me give those back.
All right.
Let's go and delete this and see what happens x and delete faces.
I'm going to press alt H again and make sure I've haven't taken away anything that I need.
No I think that looks pretty good so I'll select that again.
Shift H.
I think I can even take one more row here right here.
Yeah.
And here we go.
All right so now making my life easier when it comes to U-V mapping.
I like it.
I think what I'll do is I'll begin here and control click their control earmarks seem.
Yeah.
It was here was it.
So control click control earmarks seem.
And down here really we only need one.
I think maybe here in here control and Mark seem so now we hit a disliked everything.
Oh let's before we do this take a look at our scale tab and yep sure enough nonuniform scale so in Object
mode all press control a rotation scale.
Now I've got all ones and zeros tab back into edit mode and press you and unwrap.
Oh yeah that's looking good.
All right alt h.
Let's take a look at something else here.
How about this guy down here.
Let's take a look at this shift.
H.
Period.
To frame it up.
And now we're not going to need the faces back here.
But let's go ahead and take the view down to one see if we can.
Yeah we can use that.
All right.
So apply that tab into object mode and let's start removing some of these faces we just don't need all
of this back here.
Something like this.
Right x faces.
How about down here.
We don't need all of this do we.
Nope faces delete those.
What about the ones on the sides.
All it takes to bring everything we don't need those on the sides either do we.
Now so shift h.
Let's take those away.
Heck do we even need these up top let's take a look.
H.
Well you can kind of see through some in here but on back I don't think we do.
All right well that makes our life a little easier.
So if we just take away if we just took away this whole thing and then press alt shift and click on
an edge right between two of the faces and that didn't do me any good.
Now let's try that again.
Allt click.
Man.
All right.
So all to click an edge between two of the faces and get rid of those are right.
So I'll hit X and faces and then I want to hit the Z key and border select all of this so I'll press
B and click and drag here.
X and faces.
All right.
So yeah that doesn't look too bad.
Can we even get rid of this.
Here to alt click that.
Well let's try that be nice if I could get rid of all of that.
H
Yeah.
Why not.
Let's just get rid of all that.
Nice.
All right.
Shift h.
Let's take a look at it.
You know since it's just one sided I think we could just unwrap it as is.
We don't need to create any seems or anything so I'll tab back into object mode press control a click
rotation and scale tab back into edit mode you and unwrap.
Now let's take a look down here.
When you unwrap something and before you click anything or anything you can come over here and try a
different method out.
I'm currently using angle base but let's try conformal
doesn't really help us much.
I'll go with that.
That looks OK.
All right old age to bring that back.
What haven't we done yet.
We haven't done this yet.
Right.
All right so let's try that all shift.
H that and isolate it.
Now let's think about this let's take the view in the subdivision service modifier down to one.
See how that looks.
I think that will work I'll hit apply tab into edit mode and for this we could get rid of some at the
back and inside there make sure I know which way is which.
OK.
So this is the back and this is the inside right.
We could even get rid of some on the bottom I think.
I don't think I'm going to be turning this couch over any and the scene.
All right.
I'm going to isolate it edit mode and press the C key and I'll just start taking some of these out and
seeing what we can get away with.
And if I take too many we can always undo it.
I'll hit X and faces.
Yeah.
OK let's try these here.
All right.
There's that.
I'll go ahead and take those out.
And then on the inside let's do this we go to get these little ones I'm going to press the Z key and
then B to board or select these and delete these.
All right.
Let's take a look at what we got.
Press alt H.
Did we run it for anything.
No I think we're pretty good yeah.
OK so let's try and map this.
Once again I'll press control a and rotation and scale to apply the transforms Alt-Tab tab into edit
mode and let's go ahead and mark a few seems here I think maybe just right around here would be fine.
Yeah let's try and control the marks seem.
Hit the A key and then hit the key and unwrap.
Not too bad about conformal angle based Keralite conformal a little bit better.
Let's go with that.